Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this very quick lecture I want to talk to more detail about getting out of loops.
We've already come across continue which will just start the next iteration of the particular loop that
you've continued from.
But let's have a look.
How we can break out of a loop as well and why we might want to do so.
So we have a great example here of why we might want to do that.
So why aren't we getting our bulls and cows.
And first of all we continue if we happen to have a bull cow count and then the for loop goes onto its
next iteration.
However here what we can do is break.
And then it means we're not wasting any of our iterations.
Once we've already found a cow.
Now I know some of you will be scratching your head at this point saying well don't we need to check
all of the letters.
Well let's go and have a look at that.
And a case by case basis OK everybody so let's go ahead and have a look at a little example here.
So let's say that the hidden word is set to sink and the player guess is iced.
Now what a code is currently doing is it's looking at the first index.
So in this case the eye in ice and comparing it to the s.
Now in this particular case I is not equal to S.
So it's not a bowl at all.
And it goes on to the next for loop in our code then the next letter we compare.
I once again against the I N Sync.
Now this will increment the number of cows and ideally it should stop there but nothing in our code
says to stop.
So we end up with it checking against the N and the K which is completely wasted efforts.
So how do we go ahead and solve that.
Well we put in the break.
Now let's go and have a look at our code and what will happen with a continue and what will happen with
a break visually.
OK.
So we've come across.
Continue and this is what continue does it goes to the bottom of the for loop that it's part of.
And then our code here it just reiterates until the guests index is less than the guess at length.
And if we use continue in the second for loop you will see that it still does the problem that we've
currently got.
It will just keep going through even though we may have found a cow.
However if we go ahead and use a break it will come out of that for loop and onto the next section of
code.
In this case there is no next section of code.
So it goes straight back to the initial for loop and then we continue iterating around.
So all we need to do to prevent that from happening is put in the brake.
And there we go.
As simple as that.
So nice short lecture for you and I'll see you all in the next one.